I am Kateryna Bilokur.
Born in 1900 in Bogdanivka, Ukraine.
I was a Ukrainian folk artist.
I was named People's Artist of Ukraine and
have been appreciated by global artists and
minds.
After an unpromising start, my works became
known in the late 1930s and 1940s for their
interest in nature.
I am a self-taught master of primitive art
and decorative folk painting.
I painted flowers and fruits in gardens, orchards,
fields, still lives, and several portraits
and self-portraits.
My paintings display originality, vivid coloring,
and great attention to detail.
In 1954, three of my paintings were exhibited
at an international exhibition in Paris where,
among others, they were highly praised by
Pablo Picasso.
My work is preserved at the National Museum
of Ukrainian Decorative Folk Art.
Albums of my paintings were published in Kyiv
in 1959, 1975, and 2010.
In 1949, I became a member of the Artists
Union of Ukraine.
I was awarded the "Badge of Honor" and the
title of "People's Artist" of the Ukrainian
SSR.
In subsequent years, my works were regularly
exhibited at exhibitions in Poltava, Kyiv,
Moscow, and other cities.
My reputation and connections attracted global
attention from artists, critics, and lecturers.
I would often combine spring and autumn elements
or features in my paintings.
I made brushes myself.
I took hairs of the same length from a cat's
tail.
Each painting has its own brush.
I figured out the canvas priming technique
by myself.
In 1948, I was living with my sick mother
for a while, and later - my brother’s family
moved in with us.
I suffered from severe pain in the abdomen
and legs.
Home remedies did not help, and the village
pharmacy did not have the necessary medicines.
In 1961, my mother and I died of illness and
were buried in our native village.
I always listened to my heart and it brought
me lots of harmony and beautiful thoughts.
I wanted to share my worldview with everyone
else through my brushes and eyes.
I hope we can all see the true charm of our
lives.